DISINTERESTED  EVIDIENCIE.

I have thought it advisable to insert a few extracts from accounts of
the Massacres of April, 1909, given by disinterested witnesses.

“WWe are having a perfectly hideous time here. Thousands have been murdered—25,000
in this province they say ; but the number is probably greater, for every Christian village
was wiped out  In Adana about 5000 have perished. After Turks and Armenians had
made peace, the Turks eame in the night with hose and kerosene. and set fire to what remained
of the Armenian quarter. Next day the French and Armenjan schools were fired. Nearly every-
one in the Armenian school perished, anybody trying to eseape being shot down by thesoldiers.”

“The Turkish Authorities do nothing except arrest unoffending Armenians, from whont
by torture they extort the most fanciful confessions. IEven the wounded are not safe from
their injustice. A\ man was being carried in to me yesterday when he was seized and taken
off to gaol. I dare not think what his fate may be.

* For flends incarnate commend me to the Turks. Nobody is safe from them. They
murder babies in front of their mothers ; they half murder men, and violate the wives while
the husbands are lying there dying in pools of blood.”

¢ The authorities did nothing, and the soldiers were worse than the crowd, for they were
better armed.  One house in our quarter was burned with 115 people inside. Ve counted
the bodies. The soldiers set fire to the door, and as the windows had iron hars, nobody
could get out. ILverybody in the house was roasted alive. They swere all women and
children and old people.”—Extraet from letter of Mrs. Doughty-Wylie, wife of British Consul
at Adana ; published in the London * Daily Mail.”

 

 

    

2

 

 

IN THIS HOUSE 115 WOMEN AND CHILDREN WERE ROASTED ALIVE.

Ilistory repeats itself. In 1895 Turkish soldiers fell upon seventy to eighty young
women and girls in a church, where they had fled for refuge, and after hideously outraging
them, barricaded them in, setting fire to the building at the same time, and derisively shouting
to their victims as they were being roasted alive, to call upon their Christ to save them now
